Our night started with **Michele Nasti** giving an overview on the _history_ of frontend development: it all started with the browser war in the first years of the web, until _JQuery_ came to the scene. JQuery was the first library to spread at a planetary level and still has a lot of traction: 75% of the top 10k websites is using JQuery because its API actually solved many problems for developers, like cross browser compatibility, simplified api, huge number of plugins available for practically everything. 

Well, it soon become evident that the _imperative approach_ used by JQuery didn't scale well when the website become complex, even to 1-2k lines of code. That's why many new libraries started competing for the frontend glory. 

**Angular1** become the first framework to undermine JQuery leadership in the frontend space. Times were mature: browsers started behaving consistently and APIs were more rich, meaning that jQuery could be used only for more complex stuff. The main advantage of Angular1 was the _declarative approach_: instead of explicitly modifying pieces of the dom on user interactions, we could delegate to the library the DOM manipulation and focus on reasoning about its state. 

The next iteration of frameworks is the one we are currently living in: **React**, **Angular2+**, and **VueJS**. _React_ was the first to use the Virtual DOM, a virtual in memory rapresentation of the DOM that was synced with the DOM when it was more convenient. This provided a huge boost in performance. Together with _VueJS_ it shares a very small API and they both offer only two features: declarative rendering and a component architecture. 

Angular uses the virtual DOM too, but it's more fully fledged than React and Vue. Angular contains everything you might need, from the client-side router to a CLI to help developers in their tasks. The difference here is that React and Vue, with the support of some very popular libraries, can become extremely feature-rich and be extended to support a wide number of usecases. 